.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 Emily "TTG" Banerjee <prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me>

.TH af_mkdrawlist 3 "" "" "Afeirsa"
.SH NAME
\fBaf_mkdrawlist\fP \- create draw command list

.SH SYNOPSIS
enum af_err \fBaf_mkdrawlist\fP(
struct af_ctx* \fIctx\fP,
struct af_drawlist* \fIdrawlist\fP,
struct af_drawop* \fIops\fP,
af_size_t \fIlen\fP
)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaf_mkdrawlist\fP creates a new draw command list in the storage pointed to
by \fIdrawlist\fP. It does not perform any draw operations, but rather
records them into the draw command list for efficient execution by
\fBaf_draw\fP(3).

\fIops\fP is a pointer to the beginning of an array of \fIlen\fP draw
operations. The order of the array specifies the order in which operations will
be performed. The members of each draw operation should be populated as
follows.

The \fItype\fP field specifies which drawing function the drawop should act as.
For example - \fIAF_DRAWBUF\fP would signify an \fBaf_drawbuf\fP(3) operation.
The parameters to the function in question are passed in structs in the union
member \fIdata\fP - where \fIAF_DRAWBUF\fP corresponds to
\fIdata\fP.\fIdrawbuf\fP etc.
The significance of available \fItype\fP field values are detailed below.
.TS
tab(|);
l l l .
\t\fBValue\fP|\fBCall\fP|\fBParameters\fP
\t\fIAF_DRAWBUF\fP|\fBaf_drawbuf\fP(3)|\fIdata\fP.\fIdrawbuf\fP
\t\fIAF_SETTEX \fP|\fBaf_settex\fP(3)|\fIdata\fP.\fIsettex\fP
\t\fIAF_SETMAT \fP|Not Yet Implemented|-
\t\fIAF_DRAW   \fP|\fBaf_draw\fP(3)|\fIdata\fP.\fIdraw\fP
.TE

\fBaf_mkdrawlist\fP does take a copy of the operation list but does not copy
objects entailed within the list such as buffers and other drawlists. It is
up to the user to ensure that all values entailed in the operations specified
are valid until the list is destroyed.

Once a drawlist is no longer in use, it should be destroyed with
a call to \fBaf_killdrawlist\fP(3).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBaf_draw\fP(3), \fBaf_drawbuf\fP(3), \fBaf_settex\fP(3),
\fBaf_killdrawlist\fP(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Emily "TTG" Banerjee (prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me)
