.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 Emily "TTG" Banerjee <prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me>

.TH af_mkctx 3 "" "" "Afeirsa"
.SH NAME
\fBaf_mkctx\fP \- create graphics context

.SH SYNOPSIS
enum af_err \fBaf_mkctx\fP(
struct af_ctx* \fIctx\fP,
enum af_fidelity \fIfidelity\fP
)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaf_mkctx\fP creates a new graphics context in the storage pointed to
by \fIctx\fP. Only one context may be initialized per process, however a
context can be re-created after a previous context has been destroyed.

\fBaf_mkctx\fP must only be called from the main thread, and any calls
making use of the resultant graphics object may only be made from the main
thread.

A graphics context is required for almost all Afeirsa features and is
typically the first object a user will initialize.

\fIfidelity\fP specifies the quality hint which should be set in the graphics
context. The significance of available values are detailed below.
.TS
tab(|);
l l .
\t\fIAF_FIDELITY_NONE\fP|Quality should not be specified.
\t\fIAF_FIDELITY_NICE\fP|Prefer higher quality over performance.
\t\fIAF_FIDELITY_FAST\fP|Prefer greater performance over quality.
.TE

If the library was compiled without \fIUSE_STDLIB\fP, the \fIfree\fP,
\fImalloc\fP and \fIrealloc\fP fields of \fIctx\fP must be set to appropriate
allocation functions before a call to \fBaf_mkctx\fP.

During initialization, the GL version and available extensions are checked to
determine whether the implementation provides features which would otherwise
be emulated by the library.
If the library was compiled with \fINO_EXT\fP, extensions will not be used
to implement library-level features.
If the library was compiled with \fIGL10_COMPAT\fP, features from GL versions
beyond 1.0 will not be used to implement library-level features.

Once the context is no longer in use, it should be destroyed with
a call to \fBaf_killctx\fP(3).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBaf_killctx\fP(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Emily "TTG" Banerjee (prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me)
