.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 Emily "TTG" Banerjee <prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me>

.TH af_setparam 3 "" "" "Afeirsa"
.SH NAME
\fBaf_setparam\fP \- set draw parameter

.SH SYNOPSIS
enum af_err \fBaf_setparam\fP(
struct af_ctx* \fIctx\fP,
const char* \fIname\fP,
struct af_param* \fIparam\fP,
const void* \fIdata\fP
)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaf_setparam\fP sets a draw parameter. Draw parameters act as a way to
abstract fixed-pipeline state and shader-based uniforms. \fIparam\fP describes
the type of data pointed to by \fIdata\fP to be set in the draw parameter.
The members of \fIparam\fP should be populated as follows.

The \fIdatatype\fP field specifies the datatype of the parameter data pointed
to by \fIdata\fP. Types are mapped by name to C types where \fIsigned\fP is
noted with \fIS\fP and \fIunsigned\fP with \fIU\fP. For example \fIAF_UINT\fP
would correspond to \fIunsigned int\fP. The \fIcount\fP parameter dictates the
number of elements of type \fIdatatype\fP in the parameter data.
The \fItype\fP field specifies the intended use for the parameter. The
significance of available \fItype\fP field values are detailed below.
.TS
tab(|);
l l .
\t\fIAF_PARAM_NONE      \fP|Generic draw parameter. Will be ignored by fixed \
pipeline.
\t\fIAF_PARAM_MODELVIEW \fP|Model-view matrix parameter. The model-view \
transform matrix to apply to geometry. Must be 16 floats.
\t\fIAF_PARAM_PROJECTION\fP|Projection matrix parameter. The projection \
matrix to apply to geometry. Must be 16 floats.
.TE

\fIname\fP does not serve a purpose outside of shader-based environments, where
it prescribes the name of the uniform to be used for shader code.

.SH AUTHOR
Emily "TTG" Banerjee (prs.ttg+afeirsa@pm.me)
